Table of contents

- [PROJECT : eventhubserver](#project--eventhubserver)
  - [About The Project](#about-the-project)
  - [Documentation](#documentation)
  - [Build with](#build-with)
    - [Versions used for the development](#versions-used-for-the-development)
- [GETTING STARTED](#getting-started)
  - [1. RUNNING LOCALLY](#1-running-locally)
    - [Installation \& running](#installation--running)
    - [Database configuration](#database-configuration)
- [Few usefull commands](#few-usefull-commands)
- [Mapstruct implementation](#mapstruct-implementation)
- [REST API documentation, monitoring and testing](#rest-api-documentation-monitoring-and-testing)
  - [Spring REST Docs (API testing and documentation)](#spring-rest-docs-api-testing-and-documentation)
    - [How to generate the documentation](#how-to-generate-the-documentation)
  - [Thunder tests](#thunder-tests)
  - [Hal explorer (REST API documentation)](#hal-explorer-rest-api-documentation)
  - [Actuator (monitoring/observability)](#actuator-monitoringobservability)

---

---

# PROJECT : eventhubserver

## About The Project

eventhubserver is a ticket office website. Main features are :

- tickettothemoon_FrontEnd : a front office aimed at the public to buy tickets from and a back office for venues to operate their shows.
- eventhubserver : REST API to manage the data.

## Documentation

[Documentation] (https://github.com/vifeng/TicketToTheMoon/tree/main/documentation)  
[Documentation] (https://github.com/vifeng/TicketToTheMoon/tree/main/documentation)  
README files are available in each folder to explain its purpose.
[Devlog](DEVLOG.md) is available to follow the development process.
[Devlog](DEVLOG.md) is available to follow the development process.

## Build with

### Versions used for the development

- Gradle 8.2.1
- Java 17.0.11
- Kotlin 1.8.20
- SpringBoot 3.2.3
- Junit 5.8.1

# GETTING STARTED

## 1. RUNNING LOCALLY

### Installation & running

clone the project

```
   git clone https://github.com/vifeng/tickettothemoon.git
```

Backend

```sh
   cd eventhubserver
   gradle bootRun
```

Access to the backend API [http://localhost:8080/api](http://localhost:8080/api) in your browser.

### Database configuration

I have use the in memory database H2 for the moment. Once the application is up and running, visit the [h2-console](http://localhost:8080/h2-console) in your browser.
Connect to the database with the credentials which are in the [application.properties](src/main/resources/application.properties) file.
</br>

# Few usefull commands

```sh
gradle bootRun
# run the application
gradle build -x test
# Build without the tests
CTL+C
# Shutdown the front or backend from the terminal
./gradlew wrapper --gradle-version  8.1.1
# update gradle wrapper version
gradle clean
# clean the build folder
gradle clearAll
# A custom task to delete all the files and folders generated by Gradle
gradle clean build
# clean the build folder and build the project. recompile the code and execute the Test.
gradle check
# run all verification tasks, including tests and linting

# MAPSTRUCT
# this task doesn't exists yet.
# this task doesn't exists yet.
gradle mapstructGenerate
# generate the mapstruct implementation
gradle mapstructClean
# clean the mapstruct implementation
gradle mapstruct
# clean and generate the mapstruct implementation
gradle mapstructCompile
# compile the mapstruct implementation


```

<br>

---

# Mapstruct implementation

Mapstruct is a code generator that simplifies the implementation of mappings between Java bean types by generating mapping code at compile time, following a convention-over-configuration approach.
the genereated code is in the `build/generated/sources/annotationProcessor/java/main` folder.

<br>

---

# REST API documentation, monitoring and testing

## Spring REST Docs (API testing and documentation)

Spring REST Docs helps you to document RESTful services. It combines hand-written documentation written with Asciidoctor and auto-generated snippets produced with Spring MVC Test. The tests are using MockMvc to mock the HTTP requests and they also generate documentation for the API in the [./build/generated-snippets](./build/generated-snippets) file ensuring an uptodate documentation (or non at all !).

### How to generate the documentation

the task ascidoctor (which depends on test) is implemented in the build.gradle file. You can generate the documentation with the following command. The documentation will be available in the [./build/docs/asciidoc](./build/docs/asciidoc) folder.

```sh
gradle asciidoctor
```

or just run the 'tests and debug' in vscode if the app is launched (`gradle bootRun`).

## Thunder tests

Thunder is a REST API client extension for Visual Studio Code. It is a lightweight and easy-to-use extension for sending HTTP requests to test your REST API. it is a good alternative to Postman. Now I use it for all my tests. you'll find the collections of requests in the thunder folder : ./thunder. You can import them in your thunder extension. So you now, there is a free plan limiting the number of requests per day.

link to extension : https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=rongwong.thunder-client

## Hal explorer (REST API documentation)

With HAL Explorer you can explore HAL and HAL-FORMS based RESTful Hypermedia APIs.

Available at [http://localhost:8080/](http://localhost:8080/)

Documentation at [github usage doc](https://toedter.github.io/hal-explorer/release/reference-doc/#usage)

## Actuator (monitoring/observability)

The spring-boot-actuator module provides all of Spring Boot’s production-ready features. It exposes a lot of endpoints to monitor and manage your application. Auditing, health, and metrics gathering can also be automatically applied to your application.

- There are actuator health check and info routes as well:
  - http://localhost:8080/manage/actuator
  - http://localhost:8080/manage/actuator/health

source [official doc](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/actuator.html)

<br>
